# Testimonials from Fall 2024 Students

The best way to be sucessful in this course is to be on top of your work. I know that sounds obvious and you should apply it to every class but for this class especially it matters a lot because what I struggled with was not really realizing I had work to do because it never felt like I did and I was so preoccupied with my other couses that I started feeling more and more behind. 
Also this class in my opinion is a class thats more important than any calculus class you will take because you actually need to understand how to use github since it is so prevalent in companies today. 

- The best way to be sucessful in this course is to stay on top of your work, use the resources offered to you, and to follow a plan to achieve the grade you want to achieve. I fell behind in the class due to personal reasons, I also fell behind because I thought I was caught up or thought I didn't have any particular work to complete but I actually did. I was also doing a decent amount of work in other classes and that took up a lot of my time, so I didn't prioritize this course heavily which is something I should've done. I also regret not using office hours as often or asking more questions in class time. Don't be shy it may seem intimidating but the professor will provide an answer that will definitely give you a better understanding. Lastly, just follow the plan you set for yourself and keep at it, it'll keep you in line and you can give or take depending on how you feel throughout the semester.
