The first two tasks are the practice task, the thirds is a pre-approved explore badge.  Hover it on your issue to create an independent issue to track it.  Title the new issue `Explore: IDE`. On the explore badge, when it is ready for submission, request a review from Dr. Brown. 

1. In {index}`bestide.md`, compare two IDEs using your group's table from class, to evaluate each of them.  Your review should have an introduction that justifies the ranking and defines the criteria, a section describing each IDE with respect to all of the criteria and your overall experience with that IDE, and a conclusion that explains which of the 3 is the best based on your evaluation. 
2. Configure your VS Code preferences to your github account. add {index}`settingssync.md` with a description of what settings you customized and synced and reflect on why this is an important feature and what prerequisites to it might be.
3. (explore badge opportunity) Create a small repo owned by compsys named `ide-USERNAME` where `USERNAME` is your gh username with some example code, a vscode/codespace [devcontainer file](https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/setting-up-your-project-for-codespaces/adding-a-dev-container-configuration/introduction-to-dev-containers) that installs [CodeTour](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vsls-contrib.codetour) and your favorite extension(s).  Write a CodeTour that walks someone through using your favorite extension to do something with the code. 
The example code can be any language, can be very simple, can even have a bug in it if that helps your example. You can use an-IDE integrated LLM (eg GitHub Co-pilot, not the chat version) to generate some code for this purpose if you do not have some available to you already, but you cannot share solutions to a course assignment without that instructor's permission.