
# Welcome, Introduction, and Setup

+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

Today:
- intros
- what the *learning* goals of the course are
- see how in class time will work
- start learning git/github by doing
  
Not Today:
- syllabus review (on your own time/lab Monday)
- cours policy discussion (next week)

+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

## Introductions

- Dr. Sarah Brown
- Please address me as Dr. Brown or Professor Brown, 
- Ms./Mrs. are not acceptable
  
+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

You can see more about me in the about section of the syllabus.

+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

## Why think like a computer?

With Large Language Models (LLMs) able to write code from English (or other spoken languages, but LLMs are generally worse at non English) 

Let's discuss some examples. 

+++{"lesson_part": "main"}
Many things in this course *are* things you will use **everyday** some of it is stuff that will help you in the trickest times. 

+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

I was given this excerpt: 
```bash
echo "# fall2024" >> README.md
git init
git add README.md
git commit -m "first commit"
git branch -M main
git remote add origin https://github.com/compsys-progtools/fall2024.git
git push -u origin main
```
but since I had content already I needed to skip several of these steps
I needed to know what each one did to skip the right ones. 


+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

Assume you have dates stored as a date type, is it the same to add 365 days and add 1 year?

+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

In Python, let's see 

```Python
from datetime import date, timedelta
date.today() + timedelta(days=365)
```

+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

What if we do last year?

```

date(2023,9,3) + timedelta(days=365)
```

+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

I look forward to getting to know you all better.


## Prismia 

- instead of slides
- you can message us
- we can see all of your responses
- emoji! 


+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

questions can  be "graded" 

- this is instant feedback
- participation will be checked
- correctness will not impact your final grade (directly)
- this helps both me and you know how you are doing

+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

or open ended 



+++{"lesson_part": "prismia"}

And I can share responses, grouped up



+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

## This course will be different

- no Brightspace
- 300 level = more independence
- I will give advice, but only hold you accountable to a minimal set
- High expectations, with a lot of flexibility


> as an aside [another Professor describing](https://www.insidehighered.com/opinion/career-advice/teaching/2024/08/28/learning-management-systems-help-make-college-do-list) what she does not like about learning management systems (LMS). Brightspace is one, she talks about Canvas in the post, but they are similar. 


+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

I do not judge your reasons for missing class. 

- **No need to tell me in advance**
- For 1 class no need to tell me why at all
- For 1 class, make it up and keep moving
- For longer absences, I will help you plan how to get caught up, and you must meet university criteria for excused absence


If you do email me about missing a single clss, I will likely not reply.  Not because I do not care about your long term success; I do! I just get too many emails and cannot do the more important parts of my job if I answser every single email. Skipping these emails gives me more time to help students who actually need my help. 



+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

### My focus is for you to learn


- that means, practice, feedback, and reflection
- you should know that you have learned
- you should be able to apply this material in other courses

+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

### Learning comes in many forms

- different types of material are best remembered in different ways
- some things are hard to explain, but watching it is very concrete

+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

## Learning is the goal

- producing outputs as fast as possible is not learning
- in a job, you may get paid to do things fast
- your work also needs to be correct, without someone telling you it is
- in a job you are trusted to know your work is correct, your boss does not check your work or grade you
- to get a job, you have to interview, which means explaining, in words, to another person how to do something


+++{"lesson_part": "main"}


## How does this work? 

### In class:



1. Memory/ understanding check
1. Review/ clarification as needed
1. New topic demo with follow along, tiny practice
1. Review, submit questions


### Outside of class:


1. Read notes Notes to refresh the material, check your understanding, and find more details
1. Practice material that has been taught
1. Activate your memory of related things to what we will cover
1. Read articles/ watch videos to either fill in gaps or learn more details
1. Bring questions to class


+++{"lesson_part": "main"}


## Getting started 


Your KWL chart is where you will start by tracking what you know now/before we start and what you want to learn about each topic.  Then you will update it throughout the semester. You will also add material to the repository to produce evidence of your learning. 

see the link on prismia if you missed class
+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

There is a Glossary!!

[repository](https://compsys-progtools.github.io/spring2024/resources/glossary.html#term-repository)

+++{"lesson_part": "main"}

**pro tip: links are often hints or more information**


+++{"lesson_part": "main"}


## GitHub Docs are really helpful and have screenshots



- [editing a file](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/working-with-files/managing-files/editing-files)
- [pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request)

they pay people to update them so I direct you to theirs mostly instead of recreating them

+++{"lesson_part": "main"}


Today we did the following:
1. Accept the assignment to create your repo
2. Edit the README to add your name by clicking the pencil icon ([editing a file](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/working-with-files/managing-files/editing-files) step 2)
3. adding a descriptive commit message ([editing a file](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/working-with-files/managing-files/editing-files) step 5)
4. adding prior knowledge
5. created a new branch (named `day1_kwl`) ([editing a file](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/working-with-files/managing-files/editing-files) step 7-8)
6. added a message to the Pull Request ([pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request) step 5)
7. Creating a pull request ([pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request) step 6)
8. Clicking Merge Pull Request

+++{"lesson_part": "main"}



## Git and GitHub terminology


We also discussed some of the terminology for git. We will also come back to these ideas in greater detail later.

+++{"lesson_part": "main"}


### GitHub Actions

GitHub allows us to run scripts within our repos, the feature is called GitHub Actions and the individual items are called workflows.  

Action files are stored in the `.github/workflows` folder in yaml files (key value pairs that hold settings and script steps). 

Some run automatically, like on any PR or when a commit is to main.  The ones in your KWL repo are ["manual"](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/managing-workflow-runs-and-deployments/managing-workflow-runs/manually-running-a-workflow) so we run them from the Actions tab. 



### Fix your repo
```{important}
So, it is apparently a weird bug in GitHub, that the actions were not working, 
but it is easy (though a little annoying) to fix. 

You can do this before or in Lab on Monday. 
```
On each file in the `.github/workflows` folder that ends in `.yml` edit in some small way (eg add an additional blank line in a place where there is a blank line already) and commit directly to main.  

### Get Credit for class

You can use the same content you sent on prismia at the end of class, but for the script to count it at the end of the semester, it has to be in your repo. 

1. Go to the actions tab of your repo
1. Select the action that has the name `Forgotten Badge (Late, but was in class)`
1. In the blue banner that appears click `Run Workflow`
2. leave the branch set to main
3. Enter the date `2024-09-05`
4. Wait a minute or so for it to run, when it has a green checkmark, go to your PR tab
5. select the PR with the title Experience Report 2024-09-05
6. Go to the files tab of that PR and edit it (use the 3 dots menu in the top right of the file box)
7. fill in the information and commit to the same branch (do not open an additional PR)
8. assign @instructors to review your PR. 

For screenshots, see the [Manually running a workflow, on GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/managing-workflow-runs-and-deployments/managing-workflow-runs/manually-running-a-workflow)